Rules & Info

Rules of Battleships

Battleships is a guessing game between two players wherein they attempt to guess the
presence of each other's fleet of battleships within a two-dimensional grid.

At the start of the game each player should decide where to hide his or her fleet of
ships within their grid. A fleet is made up of one Battleship, two Cruisers, three
Destroyers and four Submarines. Each ship is a different size and, therefore, covers a
different number of boxes in the grid. The ships can only be positioned vertically or
horizontally on the grid, not diagonally. The grid is a of size 10 by 10 squares
wherein the columns are identified by numbers A to J and the rows identified by
letters 1 to 10.

To place a ship on the grid, check how many boxes on the grid it will require and
then write the first letter of the name of the ship in the boxes it covers. For 
example, a Cruiser covers three boxes so you would pick any three adjacent boxes and 
put the letter C in each box. When each player has marked their fleet on their grid, 
it's time to play.

To play the game, players take turns to "shoot" at their opponents' fleet by calling
out the number of a certain box, e.g. "A1" or "H4" or whatever they happen to choose. 
The opponent must say whether the shot has missed or hit. After a play hits or misses, 
it's the end of their turn. Players can use a spare grid to mark down the boxes that 
they have shot at to keep a record of where their hits and misses have been. Note: a 
single hit doesn't necessarily sink a ship. A ship is sunk when all the boxes that it 
covers on the grid have received hits. Play continues until one player wins by 
successfully sinking the whole of the opposing fleet.


The Fleet

When you start a new game you will need to position all your ships which are:
- 1 Battleship which take up 5 grid spaces
- 2 Cruisers which take up 4 grid spaces
- 3 Destroyers which take up 3 grid spaces
- 4 Submarines which take up 2 grid spaces

You do this by typing in the grid coordinate of the start position when prompted and
the direction to draw the ship in.
